.\" Copyright (c) Anthony L Shipman 2015
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice immediately at the beginning of the file, without modification,
.\"    this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH LIBNCOMPRESS 3 "11 October, 2015"
.SH NAME
ncompress \- Ye Olde Compression Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  #include <ncompress42.h>
.sp
.BI "void initCompress(CompressCtxt* " ctxt ", int " bits ");"
.sp
.BI "void initDecompress(CompressCtxt* " ctxt ");"
.sp
.BI "void freeCompress(CompressCtxt* " ctxt ");"
.sp
.BI "CompressError compress(CompressCtxt* " ctxt ");"
.sp
.BI "CompressError decompress(CompressCtxt* " ctxt ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions perform compression and decompression the same as the old
Unix compress program. The code has been extracted out of version 4.2 of the
ncompress package.
.P
The data is pulled from a source stream using a reader function and
pushed to a destination stream using a writer function.  The functions
are supplied in the 
.B CompressCtxt
object.  
.P
The header file describes the types and arguments.
The 
.I bits
argument is a number in the range 9 to 16 to set the maximum size of the
symbols in the compressed data.  You can supply 0 to get a default size
(which is 16).
.SH EXAMPLE
The documentation includes a 
.I tests 
directory showing the use of the library.  Here is a simplified example.
.nf

static int
reader(Byte* bytes, size_t numBytes, void* rwCtxt)
{
    ...
}

static int
writer(Byte* bytes, size_t numBytes, void* rwCtxt)
{
    ...
}

static CompressError
run(Ctxt* rwCtxt)
{
    CompressCtxt cc;
    CompressError err;

    cc.reader = reader;
    cc.writer = writer;
    cc.rwCtxt = rwCtxt;

    initCompress(&cc, 0);
    return compress(&cc);
}
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Anthony L Shipman
